Appointment of Officers to the Higher Management in the Departments of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development

Press briefing of Cabinet Decision taken on 2024-12-09 (Subject to Confirmation at the next Meeting)

- The Cabinet granted its approval for the following appointments and attachments as per the proposals submitted by the Hon. President in his capacity as the Minister of Finance, Planning & Economic Development.*	to appoint Mr. M.K. Pradeep Kumara, Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, serving as the Additional Director General of the Comptroller General's Office, to the presently vacant Post of Director General of the Department of Trade and Investment Policy.*	 to appoint Mr. P.M.K. Hettiarachchi, Grade I Officer of the Sri Lanka Planning Service, serving as a Director of the Department of Development Finance, to act full time in the presently vacant Post of Director General of the Department of Development Finance.* 	to attach Ms. S.H.D. Kaluthanthree, Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, presently serving as the Director General of the Department of Management Services, to the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, enabling to appoint her to another suitable Post and appoint Mr. Wimal S.K. Liyanagama, Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, presently serving in a Post of Additional Director General of the Department of Trade and Investment Policy, to the Post of Director General of the Department of Management Services which falls vacant accordingly.*	 to attach Mr. U.D.N. Jayaweera, Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service, presently acting in the Post of Commissioner General of Excise, back to the Department of Inland Revenue and appoint Mr. U.L. Udaya Kumara Perera, Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service, serving as a Senior Commissioner of the Department of Inland Revenue, to the Post of Commissioner General of Excise.