National Climate Finance Strategy of Sri Lanka (2025-2030)

Press briefing of Cabinet Decision taken on 2025-09-08 (Subject to Confirmation at the next Meeting)

- Sri Lanka has been identified by the Global Climate Risk Index as a country highly vulnerable to climate-related extreme weather events. It is predicted that Sri Lanka will lose more than 2% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) annually, due to the adverse effects of climate change. Therefore, it is estimated that the Government will need to invest approximately US$500 million annually to build climate-resilient infrastructure. The National Budget cannot afford that cost, which is about 0.5% of GDP. Therefore, a significant investment need to be made across various sectors of the economy particular in, renewable energy, agriculture, fishery industry and climate-resilient infrastructure, to mitigate and adapt to climate change. For this purpose, there is a need to create an environment that can attract green investments and mobilize private capital for climate-resilient and low-carbon sectors by introducing a more structured and formal approach to raising funds beyond traditional budgetary financing. Such an approach supports national climate priorities while also reaffirming Sri Lanka’s commitment to its international climate obligations. Focusing on these issues, the Department of External Resources and the Department of National Planning, with the participation of 35 Government institutions including the Ministry of Environment, the Department of Wildlife Conservation, the Department of Forest and in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme, have prepared the “National Climate Finance Strategy of Sri Lanka (2025-2030)”. Accordingly, the proposal made by the Hon. President in his capacity as the Minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development to publish the National Climate Finance Strategy of Sri Lanka (2025-2030) and thereafter to promote and implement the said Finance Strategy, was approved by the Cabinet.